.TH lepton-conf 1 "September 17, 2021" "Lepton EDA" 1.0

.SH NAME
lepton-conf \- Lepton EDA configuration utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lepton-conf
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ PATH ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lepton-conf
is a graphical user interface configuration utility
for the Lepton Electronic Design Automation suite.
It allows one to explore and modify the new-style
settings stored in \fIlepton*.conf\fR ini-like
configuration files.
It performs essentially the same tasks as the \fBlepton-cli\fR(1)
Lepton EDA command-line tool invoked with the \fIconfig\fR command,
but in a more convenient way.
However, it's not a front-end to that utility; \fBlepton-conf\fR
uses the \fBliblepton\fR configuration API directly.

To work with \fBlepton-conf\fR, you should be acquainted with the Lepton EDA
configuration system. Information about it can be found in the
reference manual:
  https://lepton-eda.github.io/lepton-manual.html/Configuration.html

For an overview of the main window layout and available controls
take a look at the screenshots with annotations on the
\fBlepton-conf\fR home page:
  https://graahnul-grom.github.io/lepton-conf#ss

On startup, \fBlepton-conf\fR will load settings for the current
directory, unless you specify \fIPATH\fR on the command line or instruct
it to start in the last used directory (by passing \fB-r\fR command line
switch or setting the \fI[lepton-conf]::restore-last-dir\fR key,
see the section \fICONFIGURING lepton-conf\fR below).

\fBlepton-conf\fR's main window contains toolbar, tree view with
configuration groups and keys and lower pane showing details about the
currently selected tree node, configuration file and working directory.

Root nodes in the tree view represent different types of
configuration: system-wide settings (loaded from the
\fIlepton-system.conf\fR configuration file), user-specific settings
(\fIlepton-user.conf\fR) and settings for current directory
(\fIlepton.conf\fR). There is also the \fIdefault values\fR node,
under which you can find all available configuration parameters.

Actions on currently selected tree node are performed using
toolbar buttons and/or context menu or keyboard shortcuts.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Do not load default values on startup
.TP
\fB\-e\fR
Close window with 'Escape' key
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Legacy mode: use geda*.conf configuration files
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Do not warn about missing configuration files
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Print default settings in the *.conf file format and exit
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Restore last working directory
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show usage information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Show version information

.SH CONFIGURING lepton-conf
There are several keys you can set in the \fBuser\fR configuration
(in the \fI[lepton-conf]\fR group) to alter the behaviour
of \fBlepton-conf\fR itself:
.TP 4
\fBclose-with-escape-key\fR
Allows you to close the main window by pressing the 'Escape' key
(the same as \fB\-e\fR command line option).
Either \fItrue\fR or \fIfalse\fR.
Default value: \fIfalse\fR.
.TP 4
\fBeditor\fR
External text editor for configuration files, launched when
you click on the "config file" link in the lower pane of the
main window.
Specify a command to launch the editor.
Default value: \fIgvim\fR.
.TP 4
\fBrestore-last-dir\fR
Restore last working directory on startup, unless you explicitly
specify the \fIPATH\fR to start with on the command line
(the same as \fB\-r\fR command line option).
Either \fItrue\fR or \fIfalse\fR.
Default value: \fIfalse\fR.
.PP
Please note that currently these setting are loaded only
from the \fBuser\fR configuration (\fIlepton-user.conf\fR file).

.SH AUTHOR
dmn <graahnul.grom@gmail.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlepton-cli\fR(1), \fBlepton-upcfg\fR(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2017-2021 dmn.
.PP
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later.
Please see the `COPYING' file included with
this program for full details.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
